# CryptologyProject1

 Program 1: target name = prog1_1 Reads from stdin, writes to stdout. Flags: -xin for ASCII coded hex input -xout for ASCII coded hex output (default) -bin for binary input (default) -bout for binary output Description: Reads stdin in eiher binary or ASCII-coded hexidecimal format, outputs the same data in either binary or ASCII-coded hexidecimal format. When reading ASCII-coded hexidecimal input, white space is ignored, and any non-white space values other than 0-9, a-f, and A-F are errors. When writing ASCII-coded hexidecimal output, write the first byte (byte 0) in ASCII as the hex value of the upper nybble followed by the hex value of the lower nybble followed by a space. Write 16 bytes in this manner to a line, followed by a newline, except possibly for the last line which may be incomplete. Binary in to binary out should be the identity operation. Hex in to hex out should at most format the hex input as noted above, and for hex input that is already formatted should be the identity operation. Program 2: target name = prog1_2 Reads from stdin, writes to stdout. Flags: -e for encrypt -d for decrypt -k<filename> for file containing the key -x if the key file is in ASCII-coded hexidecimal -b if the key file is in binary Description: Reads in binary from stdin, writes in binary to stdout. For each byte as it is read in, divide into upper nybble and lower nybble. For each nybble, first upper then lower, substitute the nybble according to the permutation given in the key file, then combine the upper and lower substituted nybbles back into a single byte, and output that byte. The key file is 16 nybbles long (either 8 bytes that are divided into 16 nybbles in order upper nybble byte 0, lower nybble byte 0, upper nybble byte 1, lower nybble byte 1, etc.) or 16 ASCII-coded hexidecimal values (16 bytes that are 0-9, a-f, or A-F). Each nybble in the key file must be unique. Encryption: The permutation is specified by the position of the key nybble, so that an input nybble of 0x0 is replaced by the first nybble in the key file (position 0), an input nybble of 0xA is replace by the 11th nybble in the key file (position 10 = 0xA). Decryption: The permutation is the inverse of the permutation for encryption. Hence, the key file must be read in, then the permutation inverted before applying the transformation. The program must check for error conditions (e.g., missing key file, key file not having a valid permutation of nybbles, etc.), and report any error to stderr in a meaningful way, then exit with a non-zero exit code.
